== RGeoServer

RGeoServer is a Ruby client for the GeoServer RESTful administrative interface. 

It provides primitive Ruby model abstraction.

== Documentation
The GeoServer REST Configuration API Reference can be found here:

http://docs.geoserver.org/stable/en/user/restconfig/rest-config-api.html

 
== Installation 

  $ gem install rgeoserver


== Example: 

Sample usage from an irb console

  > catalog = RGeoServer::Catalog.new :user=>"admin", :url=>"http://10.0.0.2/geoserver/rest", :password=>"osgeo!"
  => Catalog: http://10.0.0.2/geoserver/rest
  > w = catalog.get_workspace('topp') 
  => RGeoServer::Workspace: topp
  > ds = w.data_stores.first
  => RGeoServer::DataStore: states_shapefile
  > ds.profile
  => {"name"=>"states_shapefile", "enabled"=>"true", "connectionParameters"=>{"url"=>"file:data/shapefiles/states.shp", "namespace"=>"http://www.openplans.org/topp"}, "featureTypes"=>["states"]} 
  > ft = ds.featuretypes.first
  => RGeoServer::FeatureType: states 
  > ft.profile
  => {:name=>"states", :workspace=>"topp", :nativeName=>"states"}  

A full sample script creating coverage stores in a small cluster:

  require 'rgeoserver'

  layers = {
    'south_america_1787' => {
      'url' => 'file:///geo_data/rumsey/g0411047.tif',
      'description' => "Map of South America by D'Anville",
      'type' => 'GeoTIFF'
     },
    'city_of_san_francisco_1859' => {
      'url' => 'file:///geo_data/rumsey/g1030000alpha.tif',
      'description' => 'Map of San Francisco by the U.S. Coast Survey, with detail of the unsettled lands',
      'type' => 'GeoTIFF'
    }
  }

  (1..7).each do |cat_id|
    cat = RGeoServer::Catalog.new :user=>'admin', :url => "http://geoserver-app#{cat_id}/rest", :password => "osgeo!"
    ws = cat.get_workspace('cite')
    RGeoServer::ResourceInfo.list(RGeoServer::CoverageStore, cat, layers.keys, :workspace => ws) do |cs|
      cs.description = layers[cs.name]['description']
      cs.url = layers[cs.name]['url']
      cs.data_type = layers[cs.name]['type']
      cs.enabled = 'true'
      cs.save
    end
  end


== Testing
We use {jettywrapper}[https://github.com/projecthydra/jettywrapper] to wrap a test instance of GeoServer. In theory, you should be able to point to any other local installation. Suppose that you download the binary stable version 2.1.3 binary from {here}[http://sourceforge.net/project/downloading.php?groupname=geoserver&filename=geoserver-2.1.3-bin.zip&use_mirror=softlayer], then unzip it under say, /tmp/geoserver-2.1.3. The integration tests are executed as follows:
  $ rake integration['/tmp/geoserver-2.1.3','8080','-DGEOSERVER_DATA_DIR=data_dir']

If you have the test instance running already on port 8080, you can run the tests simply with:

  $ rake

To generate the documentation run:
  $ rake yard

To enter into an irb console with all classess loaded:
  $ rake console

== Logging
For now we use {RestClient's}[https://github.com/adamwiggins/rest-client] base logger. It can be enabled by setting:

  RestClient.log = '/tmp/restclient.log'

or set an environment variable, for example:

  $ RESTCLIENT_LOG=stdout ruby ingest_layer.rb 
  RestClient.get "http://localhost:8080/geoserver/rest/workspaces/cite.xml", "Accept"=>"application/xml", "Accept-Encoding"=>"gzip, deflate", "Content-Type"=>"application/xml"
  # => 200 OK | application/xml 662 bytes
  RestClient.get "http://localhost:8080/geoserver/rest/workspaces/cite/coveragestores/city_of_san_francisco_1859.xml", "Accept"=>"application/xml", "Accept-Encoding"=>"gzip, deflate", "Content-Type"=>"application/xml"
  # => 404 NotFound | text/plain 73 bytes
  RestClient.post "http://localhost:8080/geoserver/rest/workspaces/cite/coveragestores", "<?xml version=\"1.0\"?>\n<coverageStore>\n  <name>city_of_san_francisco_1859</name>\n  <workspace>\n    <name>cite</name>\n  </workspace>\n  <enabled>true</enabled>\n  <type>GeoTIFF</type>\n  <description>Map of San Francisco by the U.S. Coast Survey, with detail of the unsettled lands</description>\n  <url>file:///geo_data/rumsey/g1030000alpha.tif</url>\n</coverageStore>\n", "Accept"=>"application/xml", "Accept-Encoding"=>"gzip, deflate", "Content-Length"=>"363", "Content-Type"=>"application/xml"
  # => 201 Created |  0 bytes


== Related Resources
* {OSGeo The Open Source Geospatial Foundation}[http://www.osgeo.org]
* {GeoServer Project page}[http://docs.geoserver.org/stable/en/user/index.html]
* {GeoServer Catalog design}[http://bit.ly/JrX1J8]
* {GeoTools}[http://geotools.org/]
* Implementation in other languages: 
  * Python: {gsconfig.py}[https://github.com/dwins/gsconfig.py]

== Release History

- <b>v0.5</b> - Initial alpha release

== TODO
- Handle default resources transparently.
- Complete data stores and coverages functionality, handle Layers, styles and data upload.
- Complete documentaion and test coverage. Add more flexibility for integration tests with embedded Jetty and other containers.
- Provide more examples:
  - Customize configuration.
  - Connect under SSL.
  - Batch processing.
- Migrate base HTTP client to {Weary}[https://github.com/mwunsch/weary]?

== Contributing with Patches and Pull requests checklist
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.


== Acknowledgements
Inspired on the Rubydora and RSolr gems. Followed somewhat closely to {gsconfig.py}[https://github.com/dwins/gsconfig.py] 

== Contributors


== License 

Copyright (c) 2011 Renzo Sanchez-Silva <renzo@stanford.edu>.

Licensed under the [MIT License](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
